[IMP] l10n_br: include electronic invoicing flow (#6877)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/brazil.rst

Introduction
============

With the Brazilian localization, sales taxes can be automatically computed and electronic invoices
(NF-e) for goods can be sent using AvaTax (Avalara) through API calls. Moreover, taxes for services
can be configured.

> For the goods tax computation and electronic invoicing part, you need to configure the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the goods tax computation and electronic invoicing process, you need to configure the
```

#. You will receive an email with a token and a link to create your password. Click on this link and
   copy-paste the token to allocate your desired password.

.. tip::
   You can start using AvaTax in Odoo for tax computation **only** without creating a password and

>    accessing the Avalara portal in the Odoo database. But if you want to use the electronic invoice
>    service, you **must** access the AvaTax portal and upload your certificate there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   accessing the Avalara portal in the Odoo database. However, in order to use the electronic invoice
   service, you **must** access the AvaTax portal and upload your certificate there.
```

   You can transfer API credentials. Use this only when you have already created an account in
   another Odoo instance and wish to reuse it.

A1 certificate upload
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In order to issue electronic invoices a certificate needs to be uploaded to the `AvaTax portal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to issue electronic invoices, a certificate needs to be uploaded to the `AvaTax portal
```

<https://portal.avalarabrasil.com.br/Login>`_.

> The certificate will be synchronized with Odoo as far as in the AvaTax portal the external
> identifier number matches - without special characters - with the CNPJ number and in Odoo the
> identification number (CNPJ) matches with the CNPJ in AvaTax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The certificate will be synchronized with Odoo, as long as the external identifier number in the AvaTax portal matches - without special characters - with the CNPJ number, and the identification number (CNPJ) in Odoo matches with the CNPJ in AvaTax.
```
I believe I was able to get the gist of this, but if I am wrong feel free to change it.

   - Select the :guilabel:`Company` option for a contact with a tax ID (CNPJ), or check
     :guilabel:`Individual` for a contact with a CPF.
   - :guilabel:`Name`
   - :guilabel:`Address` (add :guilabel:`City`, :guilabel:`State`, :guilabel:`Zip Code`,
     :guilabel:`Country`)

     - In the :guilabel:`Street` field, enter the street, number, and any extra address information

>      - In the :guilabel:`Street 2` field enter the neighborhood

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - In the :guilabel:`Street 2` field, enter the neighborhood
```

   - :guilabel:`Identification Number` (:guilabel:`CNPJ`, :guilabel:`CPF`)
   - :guilabel:`Tax ID` (associated with the identification type)
   - :guilabel:`IE`: state tax identification number

>    - :guilabel:`IM`: municipa tax identification number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - :guilabel:`IM`: municipal tax identification number
```

>    - :guilabel:`Main Activity Sector`: list of main activity sectors of the contact

Reviewer 2: Updated all bullets to use periods, thank you!

Workflows
=========

> This section provides an overview of the actions that trigger API calls for tax computation, and how

Reviewer 3: you might want to explain what API calls in a couple of words or only add a link to an explanation.

to send an electronic invoice for goods (NF-e) for government validation.

.. warning::
   Please note that each API call incurs a cost. Be mindful of the actions that trigger these calls
   to manage costs effectively.

Tax computation
---------------

> Tax calculations on quotations / sales orders

Reviewer 3: Tax calculations on quotations and sales orders

To create a debit note from an invoice, go to the :guilabel:`⚙️ (gear)` icon on the left upper
corner of the invoice and select :guilabel:`Debit Note`, then click on :guilabel:`Copy lines` and
click :guilabel:`Create Debit Note`.

.. image:: brazil/debit-note.png
   :alt: Debit note creation in Odoo.

.. note::
   The required fields on the debit note are the same that apply for :ref:`customer invoices
   <brazil/electronic-documents>`.

Invoice cancellation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is possible to cancel an electronic invoice that was validated by the government.

This can be done in Odoo by clicking :guilabel:`Request Cancel` and adding a cancellation
:guilabel:`Reason` on the pop-up that appears. If you want to send this cancellation reason to your
customer via email, you can do so by selecting the :guilabel:`E-mail` checkbox.

Furthermore, it is important to check whether the electronic invoice is still within the
cancellation deadline, which may vary according to the legislation of each state.

.. image:: brazil/invoice-cancellation.png
   :alt: Invoice cancellation reason in Odoo.

Correction letter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> It is possible to create a correction letter linked to an electronic invoice that was validated by
> the government.
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A correction letter ca be created and linked to an electronic invoice that was validated by
the government.

```

This can be done in Odoo by clicking :guilabel:`Correction Letter` and adding a correction

> :guilabel:`Reason` on the pop-up that appears. If you want to send this correction reason to your
> customer via email, you can do so by selecting the :guilabel:`E-mail` checkbox.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Reason` on the pop-up that appears. To send this correction reason to a customer via email, activate the :guilabel:`E-mail` checkbox.
```

.. image:: brazil/correction-letter.png
   :alt: Correction letter reason in Odoo.

Invalidate invoice number range
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A range of numbers within series that are assigned to sales journals can be invalidated with the

> government, if those sequences are not used and are not going to be used. To do so, navigate to the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
government, only if those sequences are not used **and** are not going to be used. To do so, navigate to the
```

> journal select the ::menuselection:`⚙️ (gear) icon --> Invalidate Number Range (BR)`. On the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
journal select the ::menuselection:`⚙️ (gear) icon --> Invalidate Number Range (BR)`. On the
```
```suggestion
journal, and click the ::menuselection:`⚙️ (gear) icon --> Invalidate Number Range (BR)`. On the
```

:guilabel:`Invalidate Number Range (BR)` wizard, add the :guilabel:`Initial Number` and

> :guilabel:`End Number` of the range that should be canceled, and state an invalidation
> :guilabel:`Reason`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`End Number` of the range that should be canceled, and enter an invalidation
:guilabel:`Reason`.
```

.. image:: brazil/range-number-invalidation.png
   :alt: Number range invalidation selection in Odoo.

.. image:: brazil/range-number-invalidation-wizard.png
   :alt: Number range invalidation wizard in Odoo.

.. note::

>    The log of the numbers that were canceled and the XML file will be recorded in the chatter of the
>    journal.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   The log of the canceled numbers along with the XML file are recorded in the chatter of the
   journal.
```

> Electronic documents

Author: Hey @samueljlieber my bad here! This is wrong, it should be
```suggestion
Vendor Bills
```

Can you help me with this change?

All the rest looks good!
cc' @ren-odoo @fvz-odoo

------------

On the vendor bills side, when receiving an invoice from a supplier, you can encode the bill in Odoo
by adding all the commercial information together with the same Brazilian specific information that

> is recorded on :ref:`customer invoices <brazil/electronic-documents>`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
is recorded on the :ref:`customer invoices <brazil/electronic-documents>`.
```

of the other options - :guilabel:`Download` or :guilabel:`Email`. Finally, click on :guilabel:`Send
\& Print` to process the invoice against the government.

Before sending the electronic invoice for goods (NF-e) some fields need to be filled out on the
invoice:

- :guilabel:`Customer` with all the customer information.
- :guilabel:`Payment Method: Brazil` (how the invoice is planned to be paid).
- :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` set as the :guilabel:`Automatic Tax Mapping (Avalara Brazil)`.
- :guilabel:`Document Type` set as :guilabel:`(55) Electronic Invoice (NF-e)`. This is the only
   electronic document supported at the moment. Non-electronic invoices can be registered, and other
   document types can be activated if needed.

There are some other optional fields that depend on the nature of the transaction. These fields are
not required, so no errors will appear from the government if these optional fields are not
populated for most cases:

- :guilabel:`Freight Model` determines how the goods are planned to be transported - domestic.
- :guilabel:`Transporter Brazil` determines who is doing the transportation.

.. image:: brazil/invoice-info-needed.png

>    :alt: Invoice information needed to process an electronic invoice.

Reviewer 3: no red highlights

.. image:: brazil/process-electronic-invoice.png

>    :alt: Process electronic invoice pop-up in Odoo.

Reviewer 3: no red highlight needed

.. note::
   All fields available on the invoice in order to issue an electronic invoice are also available on
   the sales order, if needed. When creating the first invoice, the field :guilabel:`Document

>    Number` is displayed, allocated as  the first number to be used sequentially for subsequent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Number` is displayed, allocated as the first number to be used sequentially for subsequent
```
